# 常见内存问题

## OutOfMemory

### java.lang.OutOfMemoryError: Java heap space

### java.lang.OutOfMemoryError: GC Overhead limit exceeded

By default, the Java process recovers less than 2 percent of the heap by spending more than 98 percent of its processing time. When this happens, it throws the GC overhead limit exceeded error.

### java.lang.OutOfMemoryError: Permgen space

This is applicable to JVM 7 and earlier. Java 8 has changed the memory model. 

This newer model does not have permanent generation region, which is replaced by Metaspace region. As we have learned, Java memory is divided into various regions. When JVM first initialized, it set the sizes of all these regions to platform-specific defaults. You can also specify the sizes in the VM parameter section, which will be used for the allocation over the platform-specific defaults. The preceding error is related to permanent generation area, which means the size of the permanent generation area in the memory is filled up. Permanent generation mostly stores the declarations, including name and fields of the class, methods with their bytecode, object arrays, constant pool information, and JIT compiler optimization of the loaded classes. This states that the permanent generation space is mainly affected by the number of classes and the size of each class. It means that a very big class or large number of classes are going to contribute to this type of error, OutOfMemoryError.

### java.lang.OutOfMemoryError: Metaspace

One of the regions of the JVM memory is the Metaspace region. If it gets filled up, JVM throws this type of exception. Since this is the replacement of the permanent generation region, the Metaspace region now stores the information of permanent generation. It is used to store things like the declarations, including name and fields of the class, methods with their bytecode, object arrays, constant pool information and JIT compiler optimization of the loaded classes.

Hence, this type of error is thrown by JVM for having a large number of big classes. The following example uses javassist package from the link: http://jboss-javassist.github.io/javassist/ which enables Java bytecode manipulation. This library is used for editing bytecodes. At runtime when JVM loads the classes, programs can define or modify new classes:

### java.lang.OutOfMemoryError: Unable to create new native thread

As you know every Java program runs in a new thread. Java supports multithreading so you can create as many threads as you like till you consume all the available memory for the JVM. Once the memory limit is reached, JVM native code can no longer create a new native thread from the underlying operating system.

### java.lang.OutOfMemoryError: request size bytes for reason

If you are not new to computers, you may already know what swap space is. It is a space used by the underlying operating system to store the contents in lieu of RAM in case it fills up. Every time you start your application, JVM allocates the appropriate amount of memory to all the regions depending on your VM parameter. This means, your application has an upper limit for the memory it can use. Hence, if your application happens to request more memory than the allocated limit, the operating system uses the swap space from the hard drive as a virtual memory. If the swap memory space is also fully consumed, JVM throws the error java.lang.OutOfMemoryError: request size bytes for reason. Are you out of swap space?

### java.lang.OutOfMemoryError: Requested array size exceeds VM limit

### Out of memory: kill process or sacrifice child

## StackOverflow
