# Introduction to Microservices Architecture

The heart of microservices architecture is the **Single Responsibility Principle (SRP)**, "Do one thing and do it exceptionally well".

## Characteristics of microservice architecture

* **The system should consist of two or more running units or components.** These components should expose their functionality as services. Each component should serve a business purpose, and the components should be loosely coupled. Components should communicate with each other through predefined protocols, such as messaging queues, HTTP request/response models, and so on.
* **Systems should be language agnostic.** One component can be developed in Java, and another can be developed in .NET. The decision of choosing a technology platform for a particular service should not affect the application architecture.
* **Systems should have a decentralized database.** Ideally, each component or microservice should have its own database, with whom only that service is interacting. No other component or service can fetch or modify the data in that database.
* **Each component in the system should be cohesive, independent, and self-deployable.** It should not be dependent on any other component or resource to work or to deploy. It should have Continuous Integration/Continuous Deployment (CI/CD) in place to ship faster.
* **The system should have automated testing in place**. Speed is the one of the most desirable features of microservice architecture. In the cycle of build, test, and ship, if automated testing is not in place, then it cannot meet the goal.
* **Any component/service's failure should be in isolation.** Failure of one service should not make the whole application go down. If it fails, it should not affect other components/services. Some kind of failure roll back mechanism should be in place. That means if one service fails, it should be easy to roll it back to an older working version.

The success of microservice architecture is based on how efficiently one analyze the problem domain and broke down the application into smaller independent components.
