# Defining Microservice Components

## Service Discovery

### DNS

DNS maps the name with the IP address. Multiple addresses can be mapped to a single service.

### Discovery service need
* Services should be able to register or deregister their availability
* Services should be able to communicate their changes to other services
* Services should be able to locate a single instance of a particular service

Solutions of discovery services

* Etcd by CoreOS
* Eureka by Netflix
* Consul by HashiCorp
* Apache ZooKeeper
* SkyDNS
* SmartStack by Airbnb

### Registry/deregistry of services

Any new service coming into existence or one that is destroyed or pulled out for maintenance should be aware of every event happening with its client. The following are the two types of registering mechanism:

* Self-registration
* Third-party registration

In self-registration, each microservice coming up in the system should register itself to the discovery service. While shutting down, it should also notify the discovery service. With these, the notification discovery service marks services as available or not available. Self-registry looks like a simple and clean solution for this, but it contradicts the single responsibility principle. Microservice will have one more responsibility of notifying the discovery service about its events.

In third-party registration, a separate process along with service discovery is responsible for keeping an eye on all the microservices running. This new process uses different mechanism to check the healthiness of the microservice such as poll, heartbeat, or hitting microservice health URL, and updates information in it. It should have some mechanism in place to detect the failing of any microservice.

### Discovering other services

* Client-side discovery

In the client-side discovery pattern, each microservice will communicate with the discovery service directly. In this pattern, the service gets the network location of all other services and their instance location from the discovery service before making the request to the required service. After getting the locations, the calling service is supposed to have smartness in choosing the proper instance of the required service by implementing some load balancing algorithms.

* Server-side discovery

In the server-side discovery pattern, services will make a request to a single middleware entity, such as a load balancer or gateway. This gateway will communicate with the discovery service to locate the required service, and use logic to find the exact instance to talk with. The API gateway is supposed to have the logic of managing the traffic load and choosing the best instance of that particular service. It is aligned with a single responsibility rule for microservices. Microservices can focus on their business logic itself.

## API Gateway

### Authentication

API Gateways can take the overhead of authenticating an API call from outside. After that, all the internal calls remove security check. If the request comes from inside the VPC, it can remove the check of security, decrease the network latency a bit, and make the developer focus more on business logic than concerning about security.

### Different protocol

Sometimes, microservice can internally use different protocols to talk to each other; it can be thrift call, TCP, UDP, RMI, SOAP, and so on. For clients, there can be only one rest-based HTTP call. Clients hit the API Gateway with the HTTP protocol and the API Gateway can make the internal call in required protocol and combine the results in the end from all web service. It can respond to the client in required protocol; in most of the cases, that protocol will be HTTP.

### Load-balancing

The API Gateway can work as a load balancer to handle requests in the most efficient manner. It can keep a track of the request load it has sent to different nodes of a particular service. Gateway should be intelligent enough to load balances between different nodes of a particular service. With NGINX Plus coming into the picture, NGINX can be a good candidate for the API Gateway. It has many of the features to address the problem that is usually handled by the API Gateway.

### Request dispatching (including service discovery)
 
One main feature of the gateway is to make less communication between client and microservcies. So, it initiates the parallel microservices if that is required by the client. From the client side, there will only be one hit.

Gateway hits all the required services and waits for the results from all services. After obtaining the response from all the services, it combines the result and sends it back to the client. Reactive microservice designs can help you achieve this.

Working with service discovery can give many extra features. It can mention which is the master node of service and which is the slave. Same goes for DB in case any write request can go to the master or read request can go to the slave. This is the basic rule, but users can apply so many rules on the basis of meta information provided by the API Gateway. Gateway can record the basic response time from each node of service instance. For higher priority API calls, it can be routed to the fastest responding node. Again, rules can be defined on the basis of the API Gateway you are using and how it will be implemented. 
 
### Response transformation

Being a first and single point of entry for all API calls, the API Gateway knows which type of client is calling a mobile, web client, or other external consumer; it can make the internal call to the client and give the data to different clients as per their needs and configuration.

### Circuit breaker

To handle the partial failure, the API Gateway uses a technique called circuit breaker pattern. A service failure in one service can cause the cascading failure in the flow to all the service calls in stack. The API Gateway can keep an eye on the threshold for any microservice. If any service passes that threshold, it marks that API as open circuit and decides not to make the call for a configured time. Hystrix (by Netflix) served this purpose efficiently. The default value in this is a failing of 20 requests in 5 seconds. Developers can also mention the fall back for this open circuit. This fall back can be of dummy service. Once API starts giving results as expected, then gateway marks it as a closed service again.

### Pros and cons of API Gateway

#### Pros:

* Microservices can focus on business logic
* Clients can get all the data in a single hit
* Authentication, logging, and monitoring can be handled by the API Gateway
* It gives flexibility to use completely independent protocols in which clients and microservice can talk
* It can give tailor-made results, as per the clients needs
* It can handle partial failure

#### Cons:

* It can cause performance degradation due to lots of happenings on the API Gateway
* With this, the discovery service should be implemented
* Sometimes, it becomes the single point of failure
* Managing routing is an overhead of the pattern
* Adding additional network hope in the call
* Overall, it increases the complexity of the system
* Too much logic implementation in this gateway will lead to another dependency problem
