# Communication between Microservices Endpoints

## Orchestration versus Choreography

### Orchestration

There will be a mediator service that will act as the brain or conductor of the orchestra (number of microservices assembled). This mediator service will trigger and ask each microservice to start the action. All microservices should be working towards a single business purpose.

There are challenges in this approach. Here, the mediator service becomes the central authority, and all the logic starts residing here, which is not a good microservice design. Logic inside the mediator service leads to lots of dependency between services.

Running, maintaining, and keeping this mediator service up is the cost of this pattern, but another thing is that it becomes the single point of failure in the whole architecture. This can be handled with better tooling and cloud-based techniques such as scaling, clustering, and so on. In addition to this, the orchestration model is not easy to implement in a complex domain. If you have one decision maker or controller, it becomes hard to follow the distributed design.

### Choreography

In choreography, each service talks to another service after finishing its work or, sometimes, also between its work to trigger or initiate the task in the next service. This communication can happen in a one-to-one, one-to-many, or many-to-many fashion. Like in orchestration, choreography can happen in a synchronous way or asynchronous way. Ideally, in choreography, there is a global protocol on which each service decides to communicate with each other. Choreography is preferred to be used with asynchronous communication. As there is no central service, each component just raises the event when it finishes its task, which makes the services decoupled and independent of each other. Each component will be listening to an event or message raised by another service and reacting to those messages.

## Synchronous versus asynchronous communication

### Synchronous

### Asynchronous

#### Message-based/event-based asynchronous communication

The main concept of asynchronous communication is basically messages flowing from one peer to another. These messages can be some command or some events, driven information. Asynchronous communication is typically of two types:

* Message based
* Event based

There is no well-defined difference between these communication patterns, but message-based communication works on peer-to-peer communication, and event-based communication works based on publisher/subscriber.

###### Pros of message-driven communication

* As services are decoupled in asynchronous communication, easy scaling is the first benefit one can get from this style. Newly developed services can be added silently to receive messages/events and act on it. The sender doesn't need to know about the new receiver.
* In message-driven communication, back pressure can be handled in a better way than with synchronous communication . If the producer is creating the message more quickly than the consumer is consuming it, then there will be lots of messages in the queue to process. This situation is called back pressure. In this particular situation, the consumer can do two things. First, they can raise an event to tell the producer to slow down. Second, they can add more workers silently. This kind of problem mostly comes in event processing.

##### Disadvantages of asynchronous communication

* Operation complexity will increase, because message broker has to be installed, configured, and maintained with high availability, which is an overhead.
* It's hard to see what is happening in a system. There are messages flowing and action is being taken by different services, but due to the autonomous nature, it is hard to get a clear view of what's happening in the system. Due to this, extra effort is required at the time of debugging any issue.
* Sometimes, it is hard to convert any request/response structure to message-based communication. Consider a train booking system. Without checking the availability at run time, booking a ticket is not possible. In these kind of scenarios, synchronous communication makes sense.
