# Securing Microservice Endpoints

## Security challenges in microservices

### Mix technology stack or legacy code presence

### Authentication and authorization (access control)

* Authentication：Who are you?
* Authorization：What you can do?

### Token-based security

If token-based security is chosen by the developer, then the choice of token format is a challenge. The token should be well managed. Its life cycle and expiry time should be taken into consideration to understand whether the token is stored on some device where it can be hacked later and used for different purposes. JWT here seems to be the best candidate.

### Responsibility of security

In general, a developer comes with a mindset that security is the job of the network or deployment's team. However, in a microservice environment, each service is considered to be open to threats. Of course, the network layer will have its own kind of security, such as port blocking, IP white listing, and so on. However, it becomes a challenge for the organization to change the developer's mindset to think about security while coding, to log any suspicious activity.

### Fear with orchestration style

Orchestration pattern in a microservices architecture has a different kind of threat. In orchestration, one component rules all components. So, if someone breaches or attacks this layer, they can damage or take control of all the components' behavior. So, this one component rules all concept is always feared.

### Communication among services

There are some common practices for security that should be considered in microservice architecture:

* The basic thing is to use certificates during communication, even HTTPS will be a good start here (if communication is REST based).
* Encrypt traffic among services communication.
* Make the correct access strategy. Access between components should be restricted. It should be started with the lowest permission and given only the required permission.
* Monitoring is another tool to deal with the security aspect. If good monitoring is in place, it can give you a good view of what's happening in the system.
* Log all the things required to debug or identify any security issues. It will be helpful for the developer's team as well.
Test your security infrastructure on regular basis.
* If any third-party code or container is used in your microservice release, you should verify or scan that completely before using. Using this kind of stuffmeans you need to keep eyes on any security patch updates.
* Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP) has some very nice tips and cheat sheets for security. These should be considered while thinking in terms of security.
* Code review should be done very frequently and with less lines of code. If you ask someone to do a code review of more than 1000 lines, you will hardly get any comments. In contrast, if you share less than 100 lines of code, you will get more comments.

## Using JWT along with OpenID and OAuth 2.0

JWT stands for JSON web token, which actually has some information related to a particular call. JWT is issued with both authentication and authorization. From a valid JWT token, we can easily identify who is the user and what they can do.

Nowadays, OAuth 2.0 and OpenID Connect are looked at as an alternative to Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML) for communicating identities and information about a user to identity providers and service or resource providers. OpenID is more for authentication purposes, and OAuth is more for the authorization server.

### OpenID

### Auth2.0

## JWT(Json Web Token)
